my name is elizabeth i'm a medical
student and an artist living in london
and in this video i wanted to share my
top tips for lecture note-taking in
university chances are we won't attend
every single lecture in university
but when we do these are the things that
i've found to be helpful for me the
first thing and this is kind of a
mind shift change was realizing the
difference between
a lecture and wikipedia with ic lectures
now is that they don't
only have value in the content that is
delivered and the information
but there's a lot of value in the
lecture
as an individual in himself this is
because chances are they are a
professional
someone who has a lot of insight and
experience in what they are talking
about
so the way that they phrase things the
connections that they make the things
that they emphasize
are actually the most valuable thing for
me in the lecture what i mean by this
specifically
is that if i see a lecturer focusing on
something for quite a long time
or explicitly saying that this is very
important
this comes up all the time i really want
to focus on whenever they say things
like this
i will make a symbol for me that's a
star on the top right hand corner of my
lecture notes but you can really use
anything
so i'll just make a symbol to tell
myself later that this
is something important to know some
lecturers might have 70 or 80 slides and
it is completely impossible
for me to retain all the information
that i will be delivered
year on year in medicine but whenever
someone who's been
teaching this for many many times
explicitly says this is important
my ears per cup and i'd make a symbol in
my notes another thing that i find
important in what a lecturer says
is when they summarize things and
summaries don't only happen in the end
of the lecture although that is very
very important too
but after they finish describing a
concept especially something that is
quite long and complicated
they usually give a one sentence brief
summary
these are the most important parts of
the lecture to me i will usually write
or type these out every time
and pay a lot of attention to them in
the end of the day i can just collect
these summaries and i'll have the main
points of what i need to know in the
lecture what they might also add are
real life examples
or connections that are not mentioned in
the slide so when they say things like
the thing that i mentioned a few weeks
ago
or this is similar to the condition that
we had before
or when they describe a medication for
example they might say
oh we've seen this used previously for
why
but now we're using it for zed i know
these little connections because they're
very very important
in consolidating information in my mind
my next point would be to find the sweet
spot
there's this point in between too much
and there's too little note-taking that
depends on the individual
but it's valuable to know for me for
example if i take too many notes
it basically becomes a transcription of
what the lecture is saying and i'll end
up with four pages of lecture notes that
i'm probably never going to read again
and were a complete waste of time on the
other hand if i'm not taking any notes
at all
i am very likely to fall asleep so
there's this point in the middle that is
quite valuable
using things such as handwriting
although i do have my forms for this
too but i would definitely recommend
trying to train yourself to find what is
the amount that you
realistically would actually read when
you are revising my third point is to
only take
notes of things that are not in the
slides for things that are there already
circle it or highlight it or start it or
explain it if you don't understand and
my last point of this is so so important
is to actually ask questions to your
lecturer once it is over in my first
year i realized later on that i was
known as that really weird girl
who would ask lecturers questions after
every single one
and i genuinely would do this i'm not
shy when it comes to asking questions
and looking stupid
it's absolutely fine i do it
unintentionally enough that doing it
intentionally too sometimes
is okay so i would do after every
lecture is get yourself some questions
to ask the person
who just explained things to you there
are multiple benefits to this
firstly some things especially in
medicine would take honestly half an
hour of
googling and going down studies to find
a non-straightforward answer to
something
when i could just ask my lecturer and
get an explanation in a few seconds
because they are always on top of that
research anyway the second thing
is that they likely already understand
what they're explaining
very very well so they can give very
basic explanations
they might get carried away in a lecture
and make things a bit too complicated
but if you ask them seriously i don't
understand this
are you saying this leads to this leads
to that or am i being stupid and then i
was like oh no no no what i meant was
and they will explain it very very
simply and suddenly things will just
click in place and you have your answer
you can also ask them how important
things are
how often do we see this condition in
patients if they were to pick only one
which one would they study
what tips do they have for memorizing
these things if they've learned what
they're explaining to you
they've struggled through understanding
it too so they already have tips that
are there to give in this way in the end
of almost every lecture
i left knowing exactly what was going on
i still had a lot of memorizing
and understanding to do but especially
when things go completely over my head
in a lecture
i will make sure to approach that
lecture and ask them to clarify at least
some of it so i know where to start so
those are my top tips selection note
taking it might be that you are using
all of these methods already i'm also
curious to know what methods and tricks
you use for lecture note-taking they
would definitely help
me a lot and if there's anyone else
watching this perhaps them too
i'm thinking of potentially making a
series on how i take notes with my ipad
on
motion and with different things so if
this is something that you're interested
in too
please let me know as always if you made
it so far i hope you have a wonderful
rest of your day
be kind to yourself and others and do
believe everything you think thanks bye